mind your decisions I'm presto Walker an
octagon with equal side lengths is made
by cutting the corners of a rectangle
with side lengths of four and six as
shown in the diagram what is the side
length of the octagon
I think Bhanwari for sending me a
similar problem on Twitter at presh tall
Walker pause the video if you'd like to
give this problem a try and when you're
ready keep watching to learn how to
solve this problem
[Music]
so let's solve this problem we'll label
the side length of the octagon by the
letter S we'll label these two lengths
as Y and these two lengths as X now
suppose this side of the rectangle has a
length of four that means 2x plus s is
equal to four the other side length will
be equal to six and that means 2y plus s
is equal to six
now consider this corner of the
rectangle it's a right triangle and
therefore x squared plus y squared is
equal to s squared we does have a system
of three equations in the first equation
we'll solve for x and the second
equation we'll solve for y and then
we'll substitute these values into the
third equation the result will be a
quadratic equation in the variable S
well solve this systematically well
first multiply both sides by four then
we'll expand each binomial and collect
like terms well divide this equation by
two and then we'll use the quadratic
formula to get two values for s but
remember s is a side length so we want s
to be greater than zero so we'll reject
the negative solution and we get s is
equal to negative five plus the square
root of 51 which is approximately two
point one four and that's the answer
thanks for making mind your decisions
one of the best channels on YouTube as
always thanks for watching and thanks
for your support
[Music]
you